Project Gutenberg's A Prayer Book for Soldiers and Sailors, by Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: A Prayer Book for Soldiers and Sailors

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: November 17, 2015 [EBook #50469]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRAYER BOOK--SOLDIERS, SAILORS ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Dave Morgan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            A PRAYER BOOK
                                 for
                         SOLDIERS AND SAILORS


                            Published for
                   THE ARMY AND NAVY COMMISSION OF
                   THE PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH
                                  BY
                       THE CHURCH PENSION FUND
                     20 Exchange Place  New York
                                 1941


                          The Lord's Prayer

Our Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our
daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive those who
trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, But deliver us
from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for
ever and ever. Amen.


                         The Apostles' Creed

I believe in God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth:

And in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord: Who was conceived by the
Holy Ghost, Born of the Virgin Mary: Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, dead, and buried: He descended into hell; The third day
he rose again from the dead: He ascended into heaven, And sitteth on
the right hand of God the Father Almighty: From thence he shall come
to judge the quick and the dead.

I believe in the Holy Ghost: The holy Catholic Church; The Communion
of Saints: The Forgiveness of sins: The Resurrection of the body: And
the Life everlasting. Amen.

  To you who are serving our country in the Army or the Navy we send
  this book as a gift from the Church and a reminder that the Church
  follows you into the Service with deep interest. We hope that you
  will find these prayers and hymns and Bible readings a daily help
  and that they will make real to you the power of God and His purpose
  for your life.

                          H. St. George Tucker
                           _Presiding Bishop_
                    The Protestant Episcopal Church
                          in the United States




                               Contents


  An Order of Worship                                            1
  The Holy Communion                                             5
  Prayers                                                       23
  Psalms                                                        35
  Readings from the Bible                                       45
  Hymns                                                         59


                      Fifth Edition, November 1942




                          An Order of Worship


HYMN

The Lord is in his holy temple: let all the earth keep silence before
him. Hab. ii. 20.

I was glad when they said unto me, We will go into the house of the
Lord. Psalm cxxii. 1.

Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be alway
acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. Psalm
xix. 14.

O send out thy light and thy truth, that they may lead me, and bring
me unto thy holy hill, and to thy dwelling. Psalm xliii. 3.

Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord
Jesus Christ. Phil. i. 2.

PSALM

SCRIPTURE LESSON

HYMN

APOSTLES' CREED

I believe in God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth:

And in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord: Who was conceived by the
Holy Ghost, Born of the Virgin Mary: Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, dead, and buried: He descended into hell; The third day
he rose again from the dead: He ascended into heaven, And sitteth on
the right hand of God the Father Almighty: From thence he shall come
to judge the quick and the dead.

I believe in the Holy Ghost: The holy Catholic Church; The Communion
of Saints: The Forgiveness of sins: The Resurrection of the body: And
the Life everlasting. Amen.

                 The Lord be with you.
     _Answer._   And with thy spirit.
   _Minister._   Let us pray.


                            A Confession

O Almighty Father, Lord of heaven and earth, we confess that we have
sinned against thee in thought, word, and deed. Have mercy upon us,
O God, after thy great goodness; according to the multitude of thy
mercies, do away our offences and cleanse us from our sins; for
Jesus Christ's sake. Amen.


                             Absolution

The Almighty and merciful Lord grant you Absolution and Remission of
all your sins, true repentance, amendment of life, and the grace and
consolation of his Holy Spirit. _Amen._

PRAYERS (to be chosen by the Minister)


                       A General Thanksgiving

Almighty God, Father of all mercies, we, thine unworthy servants, do
give thee most humble and hearty thanks for all thy goodness and
loving-kindness to us, and to all men. We bless thee for our
creation, preservation, and all the blessings of this life; but
above all, for thine inestimable love in the redemption of the world
by our Lord Jesus Christ; for the means of grace, and for the hope
of glory. And, we beseech thee, give us that due sense of all thy
mercies, that our hearts may be unfeignedly thankful; and that we
show forth thy praise, not only with our lips, but in our lives, by
giving up our selves to thy service, and by walking before thee in
holiness and righteousness all our days; through Jesus Christ our
Lord, to whom, with thee and the Holy Ghost, be all honour and
glory, world without end. _Amen._

Our Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom
come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this
day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive
those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, But
deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and
the glory, for ever and ever. _Amen._


                          2 Cor. xiii. 14.

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore. _Amen._

HYMN

ADDRESS

The Lord bless us, and keep us. The Lord make his face to shine upon
us, and be gracious unto us. The Lord lift up his countenance upon
us, and give us peace, both now and evermore. _Amen._




                           The Order for
              The Administration of the Lord's Supper
                                 or
                           Holy Communion


 _At the Communion-time the Holy Table shall have upon it a fair
white linen cloth. And the Priest, standing reverently before the
Holy Table, shall say the Lord's Prayer and the Collect following,
the People kneeling; but the Lord's Prayer may be omitted at the
discretion of the Priest._

Our Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom
come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is heaven. Give us this day
our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive those
who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, But
deliver us from evil. Amen.

                           _The Collect._

Almighty God, unto whom all hearts are open, all desires known, and
from whom no secrets are hid; Cleanse the thoughts of our hearts by
the inspiration of thy Holy Spirit, that we may perfectly love thee,
and worthily magnify thy holy Name; through Christ our Lord. _Amen._

 _Then shall the Priest, turning to the People, rehearse distinctly
The Ten Commandments; and the People, still kneeling, shall, after
every Commandment, ask God mercy for their transgressions for the
time past, and grace to keep the law for the time to come._

 _And Note, That in rehearsing The Ten Commandments, the Priest may
omit that part of the Commandment which is inset._

 _The Decalogue may be omitted, provided it be said at least one
Sunday in each month. But Note, That whenever it is omitted, the
Priest shall say the Summary of the Law, beginning_, Hear what our
Lord Jesus Christ saith.

                          _The Decalogue._

God spake these words, and said:

I am the Lord thy God; Thou shalt have none other gods but me.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Thou shalt not make to thyself any graven image, nor the likeness of
any thing that is in heaven above, or in the earth beneath, or in
the water under the earth; thou shalt not bow down to them, nor
worship them;

  for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, and visit the sins of the
  fathers upon the children, unto the third and fourth generation of
  them that hate me; and show mercy unto thousands in them that love
  me and keep my commandments.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Thou shalt not take the Name of the Lord thy God in vain;

  for the Lord will not hold him guiltless, that taketh his Name in
  vain.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Remember that thou keep holy the Sabbath-day.

  Six days shalt thou labour, and do all that thou hast to do; but
  the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. In it thou
  shalt do no manner of work; thou, and thy son, and thy daughter,
  thy man-servant, and thy maid-servant, thy cattle, and the
  stranger that is within thy gates. For in six days the Lord made
  heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the
  seventh day: wherefore the Lord blessed the seventh day, and
  hallowed it.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Honour thy father and thy mother;

  that thy days may be long in the land which the Lord thy God
  giveth thee.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Thou shalt do no murder.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Thou shalt not commit adultery.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Thou shalt not steal.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and incline our hearts to keep this law._

Thou shall not covet

  thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife,
  nor his servant, nor his maid, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any
  thing that is his.

_Lord, have mercy upon us, and write all these thy laws in our
hearts, we beseech thee._

 _Then may the Priest say,_

               Hear what our Lord Jesus Christ saith.

Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all
thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great
commandment. And the second is like unto it; Thou shalt love thy
neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the Law and
the Prophets.

 _Here, if the Decalogue hath been omitted, shall be said,_

  Lord, have mercy upon us.
  _Christ, have mercy upon us._
  Lord, have mercy upon us.

 _Then the Priest may say,_

O Almighty Lord, and everlasting God, vouchsafe, we beseech thee, to
direct, sanctify, and govern, both our hearts and bodies, in the
ways of thy laws, and in the works of thy commandments; that,
through thy most mighty protection, both here and ever, we may be
preserved in body and soul; through our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ. _Amen._

 _Here shall be said,_

                 The Lord be with you.
     _Answer._   And with thy spirit.
   _Minister._   Let us pray.

 _Then shall the Priest say the Collect of the Day. And after the
Collect the Minister appointed shall read the Epistle, first
saying,_ The Epistle is written in the ---- Chapter of ----,
beginning at the ---- Verse. _The Epistle ended, he shall say_, Here
endeth the Epistle.

 _Here may be sung a Hymn or an Anthem._

 _Then, all the People standing, the Minister appointed shall read
the Gospel, first saying_, The Holy Gospel is written in the ----
Chapter of ----, beginning at the ---- Verse.

 _Here shall be said,_

                     Glory be to thee, O Lord.

 _And after the Gospel may be said,_

                    Praise be to thee, O Christ.

 _Then shall be said the Creed commonly called the Nicene, or else
the Apostles' Creed; but the Creed may be omitted, if it hath been
said immediately before in Morning Prayer; Provided, That the Nicene
Creed shall be said on Christmas Day, Easter Day, Ascension Day,
Whitsunday, and Trinity Sunday._

I believe in one God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth,
And of all things visible and invisible:

And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only-begotten Son of God; Begotten
of his Father before all worlds, God of God, Light of Light, Very
God of very God; Begotten, not made; Being of one substance with the
Father; By whom all things were made: Who for us men and for our
salvation came down from heaven, And was incarnate by the Holy Ghost
of the Virgin Mary, And was made man: And was crucified also for us
under Pontius Pilate; He suffered and was buried: And the third day
he rose again according to the Scriptures: And ascended into heaven,
And sitteth on the right hand of the Father: And he shall come
again, with glory, to judge both the quick and the dead; Whose
kingdom shall have no end.

And I believe in the Holy Ghost, The Lord, and Giver of Life, Who
proceedeth from the Father and the Son; Who with the Father and the
Son together is worshipped and glorified; Who spake by the Prophets:
And I believe one Catholic and Apostolic Church: I acknowledge one
Baptism for the remission of sins: And I look for the Resurrection
of the dead: And the Life of the world to come. Amen.

 _Then shall be declared unto the People what Holy Days, or Fasting
Days, are in the week following to be observed; and (if occasion be)
shall Notice be given of the Communion, and of the Banns of
Matrimony, and of other matters to be published._

 _Here, or immediately after the Creed, may be said the Bidding
Prayer, or other authorized prayers and intercessions._

 _Then followeth the Sermon. After which, the Priest, when there is
a Communion, shall return to the Holy Table, and begin the
Offertory, saying one or more of these Sentences following, as he
thinketh most convenient._

Remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more
blessed to give than to receive. Acts xx. 35.

Thine, O Lord, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and
the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heaven and in
the earth is thine; thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art
exalted as head above all. 1 Chron. xxix. 11.

All things come of thee, O Lord, and of thine own have we given
thee. 1 Chron. xxix. 14.

 _And_ Note, _That these Sentences may be used on any other
occasion of Public Worship when the Offerings of the People are to
be received._

 _The Deacons, Church-wardens, or other fit persons appointed for
that purpose, shall receive the Alms for the Poor, and other
Offerings of the People, in a decent Basin to be provided by the
Parish; and reverently bring it to the Priest, who shall humbly
present and place it upon the Holy Table._

 _And the Priest shall then offer, and shall place upon the Holy
Table, the Bread and the Wine._

 _And when the Alms and Oblations are being received and presented,
there may be sung a Hymn, or an Offertory Anthem in the words of
Holy Scripture or of the Book of Common Prayer, under the direction
of the Priest._

 _Here the Priest may ask the secret intercessions of the
Congregation for any who have desired the prayers of the Church._

 _Then shall the Priest say,_

Let us pray for the whole state of Christ's Church.

Almighty and everliving God, who by thy holy Apostle hast taught us
to make prayers, and supplications, and to give thanks for all men;
We humbly beseech thee most mercifully to accept our [_alms and_]
oblations, and to receive these our prayers, which we offer unto thy
Divine Majesty; beseeching thee to inspire continually the Universal
Church with the spirit of truth, unity, and concord: And grant that
all those who do confess thy holy Name may agree in the truth of thy
holy Word, and live in unity and godly love.

We beseech thee also, so to direct and dispose the hearts of all
Christian Rulers, that they may truly and impartially administer
justice, to the punishment of wickedness and vice, and to the
maintenance of thy true religion, and virtue.

Give grace, O heavenly Father, to all Bishops and other Ministers,
that they may, both by their life and doctrine, set forth thy true
and lively Word, and rightly and duly administer thy holy
Sacraments.

And to all thy People give thy heavenly grace; and especially to
this congregation here present; that, with meek heart and due
reverence, they may hear, and receive thy holy Word; truly serving
thee in holiness and righteousness all the days of their life.

And we most humbly beseech thee, of thy goodness, O Lord, to comfort
and succour all those who, in this transitory life, are in trouble,
sorrow, need, sickness, or any other adversity.

And we also bless thy holy Name for all thy servants departed this
life in thy faith and fear; beseeching thee to grant them continual
growth in thy love and service, and to give us grace so to follow
their good examples, that with them we may be partakers of thy
heavenly kingdom. Grant this, O Father, for Jesus Christ's sake, our
only Mediator and Advocate. _Amen._

 _Then shall the Priest say to those who come to receive the Holy
Communion,_

Ye who do truly and earnestly repent you of your sins, and are in
love and charity with your neighbours, and intend to lead a new
life, following the commandments of God, and walking from henceforth
in his holy ways: Draw near with faith, and take this holy Sacrament
to your comfort; and make your humble confession to Almighty God,
devoutly kneeling.

 _Then shall this General Confession be made, by the Priest and all
those who are minded to receive the Holy Communion, humbly
kneeling._

Almighty God, Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Maker of all things,
Judge of all men; We acknowledge and bewail our manifold sins and
wickedness, Which we, from time to time, most grievously have
committed, By thought, word, and deed, Against thy Divine Majesty,
Provoking most justly thy wrath and indignation against us. We do
earnestly repent, And are heartily sorry for these our misdoings;
The remembrance of them is grievous unto us; The burden of them is
intolerable. Have mercy upon us, Have mercy upon us, most merciful
Father; For thy Son our Lord Jesus Christ's sake, Forgive us all
that is past; And grant that we may ever hereafter Serve and please
thee In newness of life, To the honour and glory of thy Name;
Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

 _Then shall the Priest (the Bishop if he be present) stand up, and
turning to the People, say,_

Almighty God, our heavenly Father, who of his great mercy hath
promised forgiveness of sins to all those who with hearty repentance
and true faith turn unto him; Have mercy upon you; pardon and
deliver you from all your sins; confirm and strengthen you in all
goodness; and bring you to everlasting life; through Jesus Christ
our Lord. _Amen._

 _Then shall the Priest say,_

Hear what comfortable words our Saviour Christ saith unto all who
truly turn to him.

Come unto me, all ye that travail and are heavy laden, and I will
refresh you. St. Matt. xi. 28.

So God loved the world, that he gave his only-begotten Son, to the
end that all that believe in him should not perish, but have
everlasting life. St. John iii. 16.

Hear also what Saint Paul saith.

This is a true saying, and worthy of all men to be received, That
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. 1 Tim. i. 15.

Hear also what Saint John saith.

If any man sin, we have an Advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ
the righteous; and he is the Propitiation for our sins. 1 St. John
ii. 1, 2.

 _After which the Priest shall proceed, saying,_

                 Lift up your hearts.
     _Answer._   We lift them up unto the Lord.
     _Priest._   Let us give thanks unto our Lord God.
     _Answer._   It is meet and right so to do.

 _Then shall the Priest turn to the Holy Table, and say,_

It is very meet, right, and our bounden duty, that we should at all
times, and in all places, give thanks unto thee, O Lord, Holy
Father, Almighty, Everlasting God.

 _Here shall follow the Proper Preface, according to the time, if
there be any specially appointed; or else immediately shall be said
or sung by the Priest,_

Therefore with Angels and Archangels, and with all the company of
heaven, we laud and magnify thy glorious Name; evermore praising
thee, and saying,

 _Priest and People._

HOLY, HOLY, HOLY, Lord God of hosts, Heaven and earth are full of
thy glory: Glory be to thee, O Lord Most High. Amen.


                          PROPER PREFACES


                             Christmas

 _Upon Christmas Day, and seven days after._

Because thou didst give Jesus Christ, thine only Son, to be born as
at this time for us; who, by the operation of the Holy Ghost, was
made very man, of the substance of the Virgin Mary his mother; and
that without spot of sin, to make us clean from all sin.

Therefore with Angels, etc.


                              Epiphany

 _Upon the Epiphany, and seven days after._

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; who, in substance of our mortal
flesh, manifested forth his glory; that he might bring us out of
darkness into his own glorious light.

Therefore with Angels, etc.


          Purification, Annunciation, and Transfiguration

 _Upon the Feasts of the Purification, Annunciation, and
Transfiguration._

Because in the Mystery of the Word made flesh, thou hast caused a
new light to shine in our hearts, to give the knowledge of thy glory
in the face of thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord.

Therefore with Angels, etc.


                               Easter

 _Upon Easter Day, and seven days after._

But chiefly are we bound to praise thee for the glorious
Resurrection of thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord: for he is the very
Paschal Lamb, which was offered for us, and hath taken away the sin
of the world; who by his death hath destroyed death, and by his
rising to life again hath restored to us everlasting life.

Therefore with Angels, etc.


                             Ascension

 _Upon Ascension Day, and seven days after._

Through thy most dearly beloved Son Jesus Christ our Lord; who,
after his most glorious Resurrection, manifestly appeared to all his
Apostles, and in their sight ascended up into heaven, to prepare a
place for us; that where he is, thither we might also ascend, and
reign with him in glory.

Therefore with Angels, etc.


                            Whitsuntide

 _Upon Whitsunday, and six days after._

Through Jesus Christ our Lord; according to whose most true promise,
the Holy Ghost came down as at this time from heaven, lighting upon
the disciples, to teach them, and to lead them into all truth;
giving them boldness with fervent zeal constantly to preach the
Gospel unto all nations; whereby we have been brought out of
darkness and error into the clear light and true knowledge of thee,
and of thy Son Jesus Christ.

Therefore with Angels, etc.


                           Trinity Sunday

 _Upon the Feast of Trinity only._

Who, with thine only-begotten Son, and the Holy Ghost, art one God,
one Lord, in Trinity of Persons and in Unity of Substance. For that
which we believe of thy glory, O Father, the same we believe of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost, without any difference of inequality.

Therefore with Angels, etc.

 _Or this._

For the precious death and merits of thy Son Jesus Christ our Lord,
and for the sending to us of the Holy Ghost, the Comforter; who are
one with thee in thy Eternal Godhead.

Therefore with Angels, etc.


                             All Saints

 _Upon All Saints' Day, and seven days after._

Who, in the multitude of thy Saints, hast compassed us about with so
great a cloud of witnesses that we, rejoicing in their fellowship,
may run with patience the race that is set before us, and, together
with them, may receive the crown of glory that fadeth not away.

Therefore with Angels and Archangels, and with all the company of
heaven, we laud and magnify thy glorious Name; evermore praising
thee, and saying,

 _Priest and People._

HOLY, HOLY, HOLY, Lord God of hosts, Heaven and earth are full of
thy glory: Glory be to thee, O Lord Most High. Amen.

 _When the Priest, standing before the Holy Table, hath so ordered
the Bread and Wine, that he may with the more readiness and decency
break the Bread before the People, and take the Cup into his hands,
he shall say the Prayer of Consecration, as followeth._

All glory be to thee, Almighty God, our heavenly Father, for that
thou, of thy tender mercy, didst give thine only Son Jesus Christ to
suffer death upon the Cross for our redemption; who made there (by
his one oblation of himself once offered) a full, perfect, and
sufficient sacrifice, oblation, and satisfaction, for the sins of
the whole world; and did institute, and in his holy Gospel command
us to continue, a perpetual memory of that his precious death and
sacrifice, until his coming again: For in the night in which he was
betrayed, (_a_) he took Bread; and when he had given thanks, (_b_)
he brake it, and gave it to his disciples, saying, Take, eat, (_c_)
this is my Body, which is given for you; Do this in remembrance of
me. Likewise, after supper, (_d_) he took the Cup; and when he had
given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of this; for
(_e_) this is my Blood of the New Testament, which is shed for you,
and for many, for the remission of sins; Do this, as oft as ye shall
drink it, in remembrance of me.

(_a_) _Here the Priest is to take the Paten into his hands._

(_b_) _And here to break the Bread._

(_c_) _And here to lay his hand upon all the Bread._

(_d_) _Here he is to take the Cup into his hands._

(_e_) _And here he is to lay his hand upon every vessel in which
there is any Wine to be consecrated._

_The Oblation._

Wherefore, O Lord and heavenly Father, according to the institution
of thy dearly beloved Son our Saviour Jesus Christ, we, thy humble
servants, do celebrate and make here before thy Divine Majesty, with
these thy holy gifts, which we now offer unto thee, the memorial thy
Son hath commanded us to make; having in remembrance his blessed
passion and precious death, his mighty resurrection and glorious
ascension; rendering unto thee most hearty thanks for the
innumerable benefits procured unto us by the same.

_The Invocation._

And we most humbly beseech thee, O merciful Father, to hear us; and,
of thy almighty goodness, vouchsafe to bless and sanctify, with thy
Word and Holy Spirit, these thy gifts and creatures of bread and
wine; that we, receiving them according to thy Son our Saviour Jesus
Christ's holy institution, in remembrance of his death and passion,
may be partakers of his most blessed Body and Blood.

And we earnestly desire thy fatherly goodness, mercifully to accept
this our sacrifice of praise and thanksgiving; most humbly
beseeching thee to grant that, by the merits and death of thy Son
Jesus Christ, and through faith in his blood, we, and all thy whole
Church, may obtain remission of our sins, and all other benefits of
his passion. And here we offer and present unto thee, O Lord, our
selves, our souls and bodies, to be a reasonable, holy, and living
sacrifice unto thee; humbly beseeching thee, that we, and all others
who shall be partakers of this Holy Communion, may worthily receive
the most precious Body and Blood of thy Son Jesus Christ, be filled
with thy grace and heavenly benediction, and made one body with him,
that he may dwell in us, and we in him. And although we are
unworthy, through our manifold sins, to offer unto thee any
sacrifice; yet we beseech thee to accept this our bounden duty and
service; not weighing our merits, but pardoning our offences,
through Jesus Christ our Lord; by whom, and with whom, in the unity
of the Holy Ghost, all honour and glory be unto thee, O Father
Almighty, world without end. _Amen._

And now, as our Saviour Christ hath taught us, we are bold to say,

Our Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom
come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this
day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive
those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation, But
deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and
the glory, for ever and ever. Amen.

 _Then shall the Priest, kneeling down at the Lord's Table, say, in
the name of all those who shall receive the Communion, this Prayer
following._

We do not presume to come to this thy Table, O merciful Lord,
trusting in our own righteousness, but in thy manifold and great
mercies. We are not worthy so much as to gather up the crumbs under
thy Table. But thou art the same Lord, whose property is always to
have mercy: Grant us therefore, gracious Lord, so to eat the flesh
of thy dear Son Jesus Christ, and to drink his blood, that our
sinful bodies may be made clean by his body, and our souls washed
through his most precious blood, and that we may evermore dwell in
him, and he in us. _Amen._

 _Here may be Sung a Hymn._

 _Then shall the Priest first receive the Holy Communion in both
kinds himself, and proceed to deliver the same to the Bishops,
Priests, and Deacons, in like manner, (if any be present,) and,
after that, to the People also in order, into their hands, all
devoutly kneeling. And sufficient opportunity shall be given to
those present to communicate. And when he delivereth the Bread, he
shall say,_

The Body of our Lord Jesus Christ, which was given for thee,
preserve thy body and soul unto everlasting life. Take and eat this
in remembrance that Christ died for thee, and feed on him in thy
heart by faith, with thanksgiving.

 _And the Minister who delivereth the Cup shall say,_

The Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, which was shed for thee,
preserve thy body and soul unto everlasting life. Drink this in
remembrance that Christ's Blood was shed for thee, and be thankful.

 _If the consecrated Bread or Wine be spent before all have
communicated, the Priest is to consecrate more, according to the
Form before prescribed; beginning at, _All glory be to thee,
Almighty God_, and ending with these words, _partakers of his most
blessed Body and Blood_._

 _When all have communicated, the Priest shall return to the Lord's
Table, and reverently place upon it what remaineth of the
consecrated Elements, covering the same with a fair linen cloth._

 _Then shall the Priest say,_

                            Let us pray.

Almighty and everliving God, we most heartily thank thee, for that
thou dost vouchsafe to feed us who have duly received these holy
mysteries, with the spiritual food of the most precious Body and
Blood of thy Son our Saviour Jesus Christ; and dost assure us
thereby of thy favour and goodness towards us; and that we are very
members incorporate in the mystical body of thy Son, which is the
blessed company of all faithful people; and are also heirs through
hope of thy everlasting kingdom, by the merits of his most precious
death and passion. And we humbly beseech thee, O heavenly Father, so
to assist us with thy grace, that we may continue in that holy
fellowship, and do all such good works as thou hast prepared for us
to walk in; through Jesus Christ our Lord, to whom, with thee and
the Holy Ghost, be all honour and glory, world without end. _Amen._

 _Then shall be said the Gloria in excelsis, all standing, or some
proper Hymn._

Glory be to God on high, and on earth peace, good will towards men.
We praise thee, we bless thee, we worship thee, we glorify thee, we
give thanks to thee for thy great glory, O Lord God, heavenly King,
God the Father Almighty.

O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ; O Lord God, Lamb of
God, Son of the Father, that takest away the sins of the world, have
mercy upon us. Thou that takest away the sins of the world, receive
our prayer. Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the Father,
have mercy upon us.

For thou only art holy; thou only art the Lord; thou only, O Christ,
with the Holy Ghost, art most high in the glory of God the Father.
Amen.

 _Then, the People kneeling, the Priest (the Bishop if he be
present) shall let them depart with this Blessing._

The Peace of God, which passeth all understanding, keep your hearts
and minds in the knowledge and love of God, and of his Son Jesus
Christ our Lord: And the Blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the
Son, and the Holy Ghost, be amongst you, and remain with you always.
_Amen._


                          GENERAL RUBRICS

 _In the absence of a Priest, a Deacon may say all that is before
appointed unto the end of the Gospel._

 _Upon the Sundays and other Holy Days, (though there be no Sermon
or Communion,) may be said all that is appointed at the Communion,
unto the end of the Gospel, concluding with the Blessing._

 _And if any of the consecrated Bread and Wine remain after the
Communion, it shall not be carried out of the Church; but the
Minister and other Communicants shall, immediately after the
Blessing, reverently eat and drink the same._

 _If among those who come to be partakers of the Holy Communion,
the Minister shall know any to be an open and notorious evil liver,
or to have done any wrong to his neighbours by word or deed, so that
the Congregation be thereby offended; he shall advertise him, that
he presume not to come to the Lord's Table, until he have openly
declared himself to have truly repented and amended his former evil
life, that the Congregation may thereby be satisfied; and that he
hath recompensed the parties to whom he hath done wrong; or at least
declare himself to be in full purpose so to do, as soon as he
conveniently may._

 _The same order shall the Minister use with those, betwixt whom he
perceiveth malice and hatred to reign; not suffering them to be
partakers of the Lord's Table, until he know them to be reconciled.
And if one of the parties, so at variance, be content to forgive
from the bottom of his heart all that the other hath trespassed
against him, and to make amends for that wherein he himself hath
offended; and the other party will not be persuaded to a godly
unity, but remain still in his frowardness and malice; the Minister
in that case ought to admit the penitent person to the Holy
Communion, and not him that is obstinate. Provided, That every
Minister so repelling any, as is herein specified, shall be obliged
to give an account of the same to the Ordinary, within fourteen days
after, at the farthest._




                              Prayers


                           In the Morning

Into thy hands, O God, I commend myself this day. Let thy presence
be with me even to its close, that at night I may again give thanks
unto thee; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._

Grant, O Lord, that I may not be ashamed to confess the faith of
Christ crucified, and manfully to fight under his banner against
sin, the world, and the devil, and to continue Christ's faithful
soldier and servant unto my life's end. _Amen._

Defend, O Lord, this thy Child with thy heavenly grace; that I may
continue thine for ever; and daily increase in thy Holy Spirit more
and more, until I come unto thy everlasting kingdom. _Amen._


                              At Night

The God of peace himself sanctify me wholly, and may my spirit and
soul and body be preserved entire without blame at the coming of our
Lord Jesus Christ. _Amen._

Abide with us, O Lord, this night, and with all the sick and
sorrowful, the forsaken and weary, to strengthen and to cheer, and
to give rest. _Amen._

Thine is the day, O Lord, and thine the night; Grant that the sun of
righteousness may abide in our hearts, to drive away the darkness of
evil thoughts; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


O Lord, Lover of men, who forgivest us our sins; Cleanse us of all
that is base or selfish, and make us to be in all things thy
servants, and the messengers of thy love. _Amen._

Grant, O Lord, that we may meet all difficulties and temptations
with a stedfast heart, in the strength of thy indwelling spirit.
_Amen._

Shield us, O God, from the darkness of soul which seeth thee not,
and from the loneliness of heart which heareth not thy voice, and
through life and in the valley of the shadow of death, forsake us
not; for thy Name's sake. _Amen._

Deepen and quicken in us, O God, a sense of thy Presence, and make
us to know and feel that thou art more ready to teach and to give
than we to ask or to learn; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._

  O most merciful Redeemer, Friend, and Brother.
  May I know thee more clearly,
  May I love thee more dearly,
  May I follow thee more nearly. _Amen._

O Saviour of the world, who by thy Cross and precious Blood hast
redeemed us; Save us, and help us, we humbly beseech thee, O Lord.
_Amen._


                         On Entering Church

O Lord, I am in thy holy House. Help me to keep my thoughts on thee,
that I may hear thee speaking in my heart, through Jesus Christ.
_Amen._


                         At Early Eucharist

As watchmen look for the morning, so do we look for thee, O Christ.
Come with the dawning day, and make thyself known to us in the
breaking of Bread, for thou art our God for ever and ever. _Amen._


                       Before Holy Communion

Incline our hearts, O God, that by the grace of thy Holy Spirit we
may worthily approach these sacred mysteries and offer ourselves to
thee in answering love, through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                        After Church Service

Sanctify, O Lord, both our coming in and our going forth; and grant
that when we leave thy house we may not leave thy Presence, but be
thou ever near unto us and keep us near unto thee, through Jesus
Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                        An Act of Adoration

Worthy art thou, O God, to receive the honour and the power; for
thou didst create all things, and because of thy will they are and
were created.

                     _Glory be to thee, O God._

Glory to thee, O Christ, who didst redeem with thy love men of every
kindred and tongue and people and nation.

                   _Glory be to thee, O Christ._

Glory to thee, O Holy Spirit, for thy work in the Church, which will
not cease until thou hast made of all mankind one family, to the
praise and glory of God.

                 _Glory be to thee, O Holy Spirit._


                           For God's Help

Grant us, O Lord, in all our duties thy help, in all our
perplexities thy counsel, in all our dangers thy protection, and in
all our sorrows thy peace; for the sake of Jesus Christ our Saviour.
_Amen._

Grant to us, Lord, we beseech thee, the spirit to think and do
always such things as are right; that we, who cannot do any thing
that is good without thee, may by thee be enabled to live according
to thy will; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                        For God's Protection

O Almighty and most merciful God, of thy bountiful goodness keep us,
we beseech thee, from all things that may hurt us; that we, being
ready both in body and soul, may cheerfully accomplish those things
which thou commandest; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._

We beseech thee, Almighty God, look upon the hearty desires of thy
humble servants, and stretch forth the right hand of thy Majesty, to
be our defence against all our enemies; through Jesus Christ our
Lord. _Amen._


                       For Aid against Perils

Lighten our darkness, we beseech thee, O Lord; and by thy great
mercy defend us from all perils and dangers of this night; for the
love of thy only Son, our Saviour, Jesus Christ. _Amen._


                          For God's Mercy

O God, the protector of all that trust in thee, without whom nothing
is strong, nothing is holy; Increase and multiply upon us thy mercy;
that, thou being our ruler and guide, we may so pass through things
temporal, that we finally lose not the things eternal. Grant this, O
heavenly Father, for the sake of Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                  For Guidance of the Holy Spirit

O God, forasmuch as without thee we are not able to please thee;
Mercifully grant that thy Holy Spirit may in all things direct and
rule our hearts; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                       For Christian Gladness

O God, Author of the world's joy, Bearer of the world's pain; At the
heart of all our trouble and sorrow let unconquerable gladness
dwell; through our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. _Amen._


                  For the Companionship of Christ

O blessed Christ, who didst draw near to thy disciples as they
walked together by the way and were sad; So draw near to us as we
journey along our daily way. Open to us the meaning of life, and
reveal thyself as our strength and our companion; as thou art our
Lord and Saviour evermore. _Amen._


                    For Victory over Temptation

Grant us, O Lord, to pass this day in gladness and peace, without
stumbling and without stain; that, reaching the eventide victorious
over all temptation, we may praise thee, the eternal God, who art
blessed, and dost govern all things, world without end. _Amen._


                            For Fidelity

Teach us, good Lord, to serve thee as thou deservest; to give and
not to count the cost; to fight and not to heed the wounds; to toil
and not to seek for rest; to labour and not to ask for any reward,
save that of knowing that we do thy will; through Jesus Christ our
Lord. _Amen._


                       For Control of Speech

O God, who knowest how often we sin against thee with our tongues;
Keep us free from all untrue and unkind words; consecrate our speech
to thy service; and keep us often silent, that our hearts may speak
to thee and may listen for thy voice; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
_Amen._


                            For Loyalty

Almighty God, grant us thy gift of loyalty. For our homes, give us
love and obedience; for our country, sacrifice and service; for our
Church, reverence and devotion; and in everything make us true to
thee; through thy Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ. _Amen._


                         For Those We Love

O Thou who hast ordered this wondrous world, who knowest all things
in earth and heaven; So fill our hearts with trust in thee, that by
night and by day, at all times and in all seasons, we may without
fear commit those who are dear to us to thy never-failing love, for
this life and the life to come. _Amen._


                      For Loyalty to our Homes

Grant, O Lord, to those in the service of their country who have
left wives and children at home, a stedfast loyalty through all the
days of separation, that returning at length to their beloved they
may know the joy of unbroken fidelity; through Jesus Christ our
Lord. _Amen._


                           For the Nation

O eternal God, through whose mighty power our fathers won their
liberties of old; Grant, we beseech thee, that we and all the people
of this land may have grace to maintain these liberties in
righteousness and peace; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


               For All in the Service of our Country

O Almighty Lord God, who neither slumberest nor sleepest; Protect
and assist, we beseech thee, all those who at home or abroad, by
land, by sea, or in the air, are serving this country, that they,
being armed with thy defence, may be preserved evermore in all
perils; and being filled with wisdom and girded with strength, may
do their duty to thy honour and glory; through Jesus Christ our
Lord. _Amen._


                            For the Army

O Lord God of Hosts, stretch forth, we pray thee, thine almighty arm
to strengthen and protect the soldiers of our country. Support them
in the day of battle, and in the time of peace keep them safe from
all evil; endue them with courage and loyalty; and grant that in all
things they may serve without reproach; through Jesus Christ our
Lord. _Amen._


                            For the Navy

O eternal Lord God, who alone spreadest out the heavens, and rulest
the raging of the sea; Vouchsafe to take into thy almighty and most
gracious protection our country's Navy, and all who serve therein.
Preserve them from the dangers of the sea, and from the violence of
the enemy; that they may be a safeguard unto the United States of
America, and a security for such as pass on the seas upon their
lawful occasions; that the inhabitants of our land may in peace and
quietness serve thee our God, to the glory of thy Name; through
Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


 For the President of the United States, and all in Civil Authority

Almighty God, whose kingdom is everlasting and power infinite; Have
mercy upon this whole land; and so rule the hearts of thy servants
The President of the United States, _The Governor of this State_,
and all others in authority, that they, knowing whose ministers they
are, may above all things seek thy honour and glory; and that we and
all the People, duly considering whose authority they bear, may
faithfully and obediently honour them, according to thy blessed Word
and ordinance; through Jesus Christ our Lord, who with thee and the
Holy Ghost liveth and reigneth ever, one God, world without end.
_Amen._


                       For Those in Authority

O Lord God Almighty, guide, we pray thee, all those to whom thou
hast committed the government of this nation, and grant to them at
this time special gifts of wisdom and understanding, of counsel and
strength; that upholding what is right, and following what is true,
they may obey thy holy will and fulfil thy divine purpose; through
Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                      For Justice and Freedom

O God, the King of righteousness, lead us, we pray thee, in ways of
justice and peace; inspire us to break down all tyranny and
oppression, to gain for every man his due reward, and from every man
his due service; that each may live for all and all may care for
each, in Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                          For World Peace

Almighty God, from whom all thoughts of truth and peace proceed;
Kindle, we pray thee, in the hearts of all men the true love of
peace, and guide with thy strong and peaceful wisdom those who take
counsel for the nations of the earth, that in tranquillity thy
kingdom may go forward, till the earth shall be filled with the
knowledge of thy love; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._

O Almighty God, who makest even the wrath of man to turn to thy
praise; We beseech thee so to order and dispose the issue of this
war that we may be brought through strife to a lasting peace, and
that the nations of the world may be united in a firmer fellowship,
for the promotion of thy glory and the good of all mankind; through
Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._

Eternal God, in whose perfect kingdom no sword is drawn but the
sword of righteousness, and no strength known but the strength of
love; So guide and inspire, we pray thee, the work of all who seek
thy kingdom, that the nations may find their security not in force
of arms but in that perfect love which casteth out fear, and in that
fellowship revealed to us by thy Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                           In Time of War

O God, who seest that in this warfare we are seeking to serve thee,
and yet in the waging of it must needs do many things that are an
offence against thy love; Accept we pray thee, our imperfect
offering. Arm us with thy Spirit that our warfare may further the
victory of thy justice and truth; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
_Amen._


                        For Grace to Forgive

Merciful God, in whose dear Son we have redemption, even the
forgiveness of sins; Give us such strong belief in this the only
power that can abolish evil that we shall be enabled to forgive our
enemies; and grant us grace not only to forgive but to accept
forgiveness through Christ, the crucified. _Amen._


                         For the Persecuted

O blessed Lord, who thyself didst undergo the pain and suffering of
the Cross; Uphold, we beseech thee, with thy promised gift of
strength all those of our brethren who are suffering for their faith
in thee. Grant that in the midst of all persecutions they may hold
fast by this faith, and that from their stedfastness thy Church may
grow in grace and we ourselves in perseverance, to the honour of thy
Name, who with the Father and the Holy Ghost art one God, world
without end. _Amen._


                           For Prisoners

We beseech thee, O God, for all prisoners and captives, and all who
suffer from oppression, that thou wilt manifest thy mercy toward
them, and make the heart of man merciful as thine own; through Jesus
Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                           For the Lonely

Have compassion, O most merciful Lord, on all who are lonely and
desolate. Be thou their Comforter and Friend; give them such earthly
solace as thou seest to be best for them; and bring them to the
fuller knowledge of thy love; for the sake of Jesus Christ our Lord.
_Amen._


                        For Those who Mourn

Almighty God, Father of mercies and giver of all comfort; Deal
graciously, we pray thee, with all those who mourn, that, casting
every care on thee, they may know the consolation of thy love;
through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


           For Those who Minister to the Wounded and Sick

O merciful God, whose blessed Son went about doing good; Uphold with
thy strength and grace those who do service to the wounded and the
sick; grant to the ministers of thy gospel faithfulness and love, to
the physicians and surgeons wisdom and skill, to the nurses sympathy
and patience; and we beseech thee to protect and bless them in all
dangers, anxieties, and labours; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
_Amen._


                      For Those Wounded in War

O Lord, we pray thee to have mercy upon all who are this day wounded
and suffering. Though kindred and friends be far away, let thy grace
be their comfort. Raise them to health again, if it be thy good
pleasure; but chiefly give them patience and faith in thee; through
Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                           For the Dying

Unto God's gracious mercy and protection we commit you. The Lord
bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you,
and be gracious unto you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you,
and give you peace, both now and evermore. _Amen._


                          For One Departed

Almighty God, we remember this day before thee thy faithful servant
(_N._), and we pray thee that, having opened to _him_ the gates of
larger life, thou wilt receive _him_ more and more into thy joyful
service; that _he_ may win, with thee and thy servants everywhere,
the eternal victory; through Jesus Christ our Lord. _Amen._


                            Benedictions

The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore. _Amen._

The Lord bless us and keep us. The Lord make his face to shine upon
us, and be gracious unto us. The Lord lift up his countenance upon
us, and give us peace, this night and evermore. _Amen._


                         For Those at Home

Into thy hands, O Father, I commend this day (_this night_) my home,
my family, and all who are dear to me. Bless them with the knowledge
of thy continual presence, uphold them in all cares and trials,
sustain them with thy power; and grant that, drawing nearer to thee
and to each other, we may ever rejoice in the fellowship of those
who trust in thy goodness and thy love; through Jesus Christ our
Lord. _Amen._




                               Psalms


                              Psalm 1

1 Blessed _is_ the man that walketh not in the counsel of the
ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat
of the scornful.

2 But his delight _is_ in the law of the Lord; and in his law doth
he meditate day and night.

3 And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that
bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not
wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

4 The ungodly _are_ not so: but _are_ like the chaff which the wind
driveth away.

5 Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners
in the congregation of the righteous.

6 For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the
ungodly shall perish.


                              Psalm 15

1 Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy
holy hill?

2 He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh
the truth in his heart.

3 _He that_ backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his
neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour.

4 In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honoureth them
that fear the Lord. _He that_ sweareth to _his own_ hurt, and
changeth not.

5 _He that_ putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward
against the innocent. He that doeth these _things_ shall never be
moved.


                              Psalm 19

1 The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth
his handywork.

2 Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth
knowledge.

3 _There is_ no speech nor language, _where_ their voice is not
heard.

4 Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to
the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun.

5 Which _is_ as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, _and_
rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race.

6 His going forth _is_ from the end of the heaven, and his circuit
unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.

7 The law of the Lord _is_ perfect, converting the soul: the
testimony of the Lord _is_ sure, making wise the simple.

8 The statutes of the Lord _are_ right, rejoicing the heart: the
commandment of the Lord _is_ pure, enlightening the eyes.

9 The fear of the Lord _is_ clean, enduring for ever: the judgments
of the Lord _are_ true _and_ righteous altogether.

10 More to be desired _are they_ than gold, yea, than much fine
gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.

11 Moreover by them is thy servant warned: _and_ in keeping of them
_there is_ great reward.

12 Who can understand _his_ errors? cleanse thou me from secret
_faults_.

13 Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous _sins_; let them not
have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be
innocent from the great transgression.

14 Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be
acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength, and my redeemer.


                              Psalm 23

1 The Lord _is_ my shepherd; I shall not want.

2 He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside
the still waters.

3 He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness
for his name's sake.

4 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I
will fear no evil: for thou _art_ with me; thy rod and thy staff
they comfort me.

5 Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies:
thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.

6 Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life:
and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever.


                              Psalm 43

1 Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O
deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.

2 For thou _art_ the God of my strength: why dost thou cast me off?
why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

3 O send out thy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them
bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles.

4 Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy:
yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God.

5 Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted
within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, _who is_ the
health of my countenance, and my God.


                              Psalm 46

1 God _is_ our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.

2 Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and
though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea;

3 _Though_ the waters thereof roar _and_ be troubled, _though_ the
mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah.

4 _There is_ a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city
of God, the holy _place_ of the tabernacles of the most High.

5 God _is_ in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall
help her, _and that_ right early.

6 The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice,
the earth melted.

7 The Lord of hosts _is_ with us; the God of Jacob _is_ our refuge.
Selah.

8 Come, behold the works of the Lord, what desolations he hath made
in the earth.

9 He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh the
bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in the
fire.

10 Be still, and know that I _am_ God: I will be exalted among the
heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.

11 The Lord of hosts _is_ with us; the God of Jacob _is_ our refuge.
Selah.


                              Psalm 91

1 He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide
under the shadow of the Almighty.

2 I will say of the Lord, _He is_ my refuge and my fortress: my God;
in him will I trust.

3 Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, _and_
from the noisome pestilence.

4 He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt
thou trust: his truth _shall be thy_ shield and buckler.

5 Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; _nor_ for the
arrow _that_ flieth by day;

6 _Nor_ for the pestilence _that_ walketh in darkness; _nor_ for the
destruction _that_ wasteth at noonday.

7 A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right
hand; _but_ it shall not come nigh thee.

8 Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the
wicked.

9 Because thou hast made the Lord, _which is_ my refuge, _even_ the
most High, thy habitation;

10 There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come
nigh thy dwelling.

11 For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in
all thy ways.

12 They shall bear thee up in _their_ hands, lest thou dash thy foot
against a stone.

13 Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the
dragon shalt thou trample under feet.

14 Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver
him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.

15 He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I _will be_ with
him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.

16 With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.


                              Psalm 95

1 O come, let us sing unto the Lord: let us make a joyful noise to
the rock of our salvation.

2 Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a
joyful noise unto him with psalms.

3 For the Lord _is_ a great God, and a great King above all gods.

4 In his hand _are_ the deep places of the earth: the strength of
the hills _is_ his also.

5 The sea _is_ his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry
_land_.

6 O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the Lord
our maker.

7 For he _is_ our God; and we _are_ the people of his pasture, and
the sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice,

8 Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, _and_ as _in_ the
day of temptation in the wilderness:

9 When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work.

10 Forty years long was I grieved with _this_ generation, and said,
It _is_ a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known
my ways:

11 Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my
rest.


                              Psalm 96

1 O sing unto the Lord a new song: sing unto the Lord, all the
earth.

2 Sing unto the Lord, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from
day to day.

3 Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people.

4 For the Lord _is_ great, and greatly to be praised: he _is_ to be
feared above all gods.

5 For all the gods of the nations _are_ idols: but the Lord made the
heavens.

6 Honour and majesty _are_ before him: strength and beauty _are_ in
his sanctuary.

7 Give unto the Lord, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the
Lord glory and strength.

8 Give unto the Lord the glory _due unto_ his name: bring an
offering, and come into his courts.

9 O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all
the earth.

10 Say among the heathen _that_ the Lord reigneth: the world also
shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the
people righteously.

11 Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea
roar, and the fulness thereof.

12 Let the field be joyful, and all that _is_ therein: then shall
all the trees of the wood rejoice

13 Before the Lord: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth:
he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his
truth.


                             Psalm 100

1 Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands.

2 Serve the Lord with gladness: come before his presence with
singing.

3 Know ye that the Lord he _is_ God: _it is_ he _that_ hath made us,
and not we ourselves; _we are_ his people, and the sheep of his
pasture.

4 Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, _and_ into his courts with
praise: be thankful unto him, _and_ bless his name.

5 For the Lord _is_ good; his mercy _is_ everlasting; and his truth
_endureth_ to all generations.


                             Psalm 103

1 Bless the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, _bless_ his
holy name.

2 Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:

3 Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases;

4 Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with
lovingkindness and tender mercies;

5 Who satisfieth thy mouth with good _things_; _so that_ thy youth
is renewed like the eagle's.

6 The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are
oppressed.

7 He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of
Israel.

8 The Lord _is_ merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous
in mercy.

9 He will not always chide: neither will he keep _his anger_ for
ever.

10 He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us
according to our iniquities.

11 For as the heaven is high above the earth, _so_ great is his
mercy toward them that fear him.

12 As far as the east is from the west, _so_ far hath he removed our
transgressions from us.

13 Like as a father pitieth _his_ children, _so_ the Lord pitieth
them that fear him.

14 For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we _are_ dust.

15 _As for_ man, his days _are_ as grass: as a flower of the field,
so he flourisheth.

16 For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place
thereof shall know it no more.

17 But the mercy of the Lord _is_ from everlasting to everlasting
upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's
children;

18 To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his
commandments to do them.

19 The Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom
ruleth over all.

20 Bless the Lord, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do
his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word.

21 Bless ye the Lord, all _ye_ his hosts; _ye_ ministers of his,
that do his pleasure.

22 Bless the Lord, all his works in all places of his dominion:
bless the Lord, O my soul.


                             Psalm 121

1 I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my
help.

2 My help _cometh_ from the Lord, which made heaven and earth.

3 He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will
not slumber.

4 Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep.

5 The Lord _is_ thy keeper: the Lord _is_ thy shade upon thy right
hand.

6 The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night.

7 The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy
soul.

8 The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this
time forth, and even for evermore.


                             Psalm 130

1 Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O Lord.

2 Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of
my supplications.

3 If thou, Lord, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?

4 But _there is_ forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared.

5 I wait for the Lord, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope.

6 My soul _waiteth_ for the Lord more than they that watch for the
morning: _I say, more than_ they that watch for the morning.

7 Let Israel hope in the Lord: for with the Lord _there is_ mercy,
and with him _is_ plenteous redemption.

8 And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.


Note: The Psalms, as printed herein, are from the Authorized Version
of the Bible.




                           Bible Readings


Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord: though your
sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be
red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Isaiah 1:18

Fear thou not; for I _am_ with thee: be not dismayed; for I _am_ thy
God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will
uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Isaiah 41:10

Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth: for I _am_
God, and _there is_ none else. Isaiah 45:22

He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the Lord
require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk
humbly with thy God? Micah 6:8

For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.
Luke 19:10

This _is_ a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am
chief. I Timothy 1:15

28 Come unto me, all _ye_ that labour and are heavy laden, and I
will give you rest.

29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly
in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.

30 For my yoke _is_ easy, and my burden is light. Matthew 11:28-30

9 I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and
shall go in and out, and find pasture.

10 The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to
destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might
have _it_ more abundantly.

11 I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the
sheep. John 10:9-11

1 Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in
me.

2 In my Father's house are many mansions: if _it were_ not _so_, I
would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.

3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and
receive you unto myself; that where I am, _there_ ye may be also.

4 And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. John 14:1-4


                        More than Conquerors

35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? _shall_
tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness,
or peril, or sword?

36 As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; we
are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.

37 Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him
that loved us.

38 For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor
principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,

39 Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to
separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Romans 8:35-39


                          The Prize-Winner

24 Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one
receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may obtain.

25 And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all
things. Now they _do it_ to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an
incorruptible.

26 I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one
that beateth the air:

27 But I keep under my body, and bring _it_ into subjection: lest
that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should
be a castaway. 1 Corinthians 9:24-27


                          The Peace of God

4 Rejoice in the Lord alway: _and_ again I say, Rejoice.

5 Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord _is_ at hand.

6 Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and
supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto
God.

7 And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep
your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.

8 Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things
_are_ honest, whatsoever things _are_ just, whatsoever things _are_
pure, whatsoever things _are_ lovely, whatsoever things _are_ of
good report; if _there be_ any virtue, and if _there be_ any praise,
think on these things. Philippians 4:4-8


                           The Beatitudes

1 And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he
was set, his disciples came unto him:

2 And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,

3 Blessed _are_ the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of
heaven.

4 Blessed _are_ they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.

5 Blessed _are_ the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.

6 Blessed _are_ they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness:
for they shall be filled.

7 Blessed _are_ the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.

8 Blessed _are_ the pure in heart: for they shall see God.

9 Blessed _are_ the peacemakers: for they shall be called the
children of God.

10 Blessed _are_ they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake:
for their's is the kingdom of heaven.

11 Blessed are ye, when _men_ shall revile you, and persecute _you_,
and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.

12 Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great _is_ your reward in
heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.

13 Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his
savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for
nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.

14 Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill
cannot be hid.

15 Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on
a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.

16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good
works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Matthew 5:1-16


                               Prayer

5 And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites _are_:
for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners
of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you,
They have their reward.

6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou
hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy
Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.

7 But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen _do_:
for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

8 Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what
things ye have need of, before ye ask him.

9 After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in
heaven, Hallowed be thy name.

10 Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as _it is_ in
heaven.

11 Give us this day our daily bread.

12 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

13 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For
thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.

14 For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will
also forgive you:

15 But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your
Father forgive your trespasses. Matthew 6:5-12


                        The Father's Kingdom

25 Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye
shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye
shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than
raiment?

26 Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they
reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them.
Are ye not much better than they?

27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his
stature?

28 And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the
field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin:

29 And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was
not arrayed like one of these.

30 Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day
is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, _shall he_ not much more
_clothe_ you, O ye of little faith?

31 Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What
shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?

32 (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your
heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.

33 But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and
all these things shall be added unto you.

34 Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall
take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day _is_
the evil thereof. Matthew 6:25-34


                          The Prodigal Son

11 And he said, A certain man had two sons:

12 And the younger of them said to _his_ father, Father, give me the
portion of goods that falleth _to me_. And he divided unto them
_his_ living.

13 And not many days after the younger son gathered all together,
and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his
substance with riotous living.

14 And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that
land; and he began to be in want.

15 And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and
he sent him into his fields to feed swine.

16 And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the
swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.

17 And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of
my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with
hunger!

18 I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father,
I have sinned against heaven, and before thee,

19 And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy
hired servants.

20 And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great
way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell
on his neck, and kissed him.

21 And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven,
and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.

22 But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe,
and put _it_ on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on _his_
feet:

23 And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill _it_; and let us eat,
and be merry:

24 For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is
found. And they began to be merry. Luke 15:11-24


                   The Pharisee and the Publican

9 And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves
that they were righteous, and despised others:

10 Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and
the other a publican.

11 The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank
thee, that I am not as other men _are_, extortioners, unjust,
adulterers, or even as this publican.

12 I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.

13 And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as
_his_ eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be
merciful to me a sinner.

14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified _rather_
than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased;
and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Luke 18:9-14


                      The Saviour of the World

16 For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son,
that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have
everlasting life.

17 For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but
that the world through him might be saved.

18 He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth
not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name
of the only begotten Son of God.

19 And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world,
and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were
evil.

20 For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to
the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.

21 But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may
be made manifest, that they are wrought in God. John 3:16-21


                           Christian Love

1 Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not
charity, I am become _as_ sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.

2 And though I have _the gift_ of prophecy, and understand all
mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I
could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.

3 And though I bestow all my goods to feed _the poor_, and though I
give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me
nothing.

4 Charity suffereth long, _and_ is kind; charity envieth not;
charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up,

5 Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not
easily provoked, thinketh no evil;

6 Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth;

7 Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things,
endureth all things.

8 Charity never faileth: but whether _there be_ prophecies, they
shall fail; whether _there be_ tongues, they shall cease; whether
_there be_ knowledge, it shall vanish away.

9 For we know in part, and we prophesy in part.

10 But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in
part shall be done away.

11 When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child,
I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish
things.

12 For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face:
now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.

13 And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the
greatest of these _is_ charity. 1 Corinthians 13:1-13


                         The Armour of God

10 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of
his might.

11 Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand
against the wiles of the devil.

12 For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against
principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness
of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high _places_.

13 Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be
able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.

14 Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and
having on the breastplate of righteousness;

15 And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;

16 Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able
to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.

17 And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit,
which is the word of God:

18 Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit,
and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for
all saints;

19 And for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open
my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel,

20 For which I am an ambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak
boldly, as I ought to speak. Ephesians 6:10-20


                      The High Calling of God

7 But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Christ.

8 Yea doubtless, and I count all things _but_ loss for the
excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have
suffered the loss of all things, and do count them _but_ dung, that
I may win Christ,

9 And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is
of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the
righteousness which is of God by faith:

10 That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the
fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death;

11 If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.

12 Not as though I had already attained, either were already
perfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which
also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus.

13 Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but _this_ one
thing _I do_, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching
forth unto those things which are before,

14 I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God
in Christ Jesus. Philippians 3:7-14


                       The Reward of Loyalty

43 And in the midst of them there was a young man of a high stature,
taller than all the rest, and upon every one of their heads he set
crowns, and was more exalted; which I marvelled at greatly.

44 So I asked the angel, and said, Sir, what are these?

45 He answered and said unto me, These be they that have put off the
mortal clothing, and put on the immortal, and have confessed the
name of God: now are they crowned, and receive palms.

46 Then said I unto the angel, What young person is it that crowneth
them, and giveth them palms in their hands?

47 So he answered and said unto me, It is the Son of God, whom they
have confessed in the world. Then began I greatly to commend them
that stood so stiffly for the name of the Lord.

48 Then the angel said unto me, Go thy way, and tell my people what
manner of things, and how great wonders of the Lord thy God, thou
hast seen. II Esdras 2:43-48


                           Pure Religion

16 Do not err, my beloved brethren.

17 Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh
down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness,
neither shadow of turning.

18 Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we
should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.

19 Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear,
slow to speak, slow to wrath:

20 For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God.

21 Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of
naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is
able to save your souls.

22 But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your
own selves.

23 For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like
unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass:

24 For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway
forgetteth what manner of man he was.

25 For whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth
_therein_, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work,
this man shall be blessed in his deed.

26 If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his
tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion _is_ vain.

27 Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To
visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, _and_ to keep
himself unspotted from the world. James 1:16-27


                      The Vision of the Future

9 After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man
could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues,
stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white
robes, and palms in their hands;

10 And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which
sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.

11 And all the angels stood round about the throne, and _about_ the
elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their
faces, and worshipped God,

12 Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving,
and honour, and power, and might, _be_ unto our God for ever and
ever. Amen.

13 And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these
which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?

14 And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These
are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their
robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.

15 Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day
and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall
dwell among them.

16 They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall
the sun light on them, nor any heat.

17 For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them,
and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall
wipe away all tears from their eyes. Revelation 7:9-17




                               Hymns


  Numbers in parentheses indicate number of hymn in The Wayside
  Hymnal, published by the Forward Movement Commission of the
  Episcopal Church, to be obtained at 5 cents per copy for
  quantities of 5 or more copies. Address: _Sharon, Pa._ This hymnal
  includes music for each hymn.


1.    (3)

  1 O saving Victim, opening wide
    The gate of heaven to man below,
  Our foes press on from every side,
    Thine aid supply, thy strength bestow.

  2 All praise and thanks to thee ascend
    For evermore, blest One in Three;
  O grant us life that shall not end,
    In our true native land with thee.    Amen.


2.    (4)

  1 I need thee every hour,
    Most gracious Lord;
  No tender voice like thine
    Can peace afford.
      _I need thee, O I need thee,_
        _Every hour I need thee;_
      _O bless me now, my Saviour,_
        _I come to thee!_

  2 I need thee every hour;
    Stay thou near by;
  Temptations lose their power
    When thou art nigh.
      _I need thee, O I need thee,_
        _Every hour I need thee;_
      _O bless me now, my Saviour,_
        _I come to thee!_

  3 I need thee every hour,
    In joy or pain;
  Come quickly and abide,
    Or life is vain.
      _I need thee, O I need thee,_
        _Every hour I need thee;_
      _O bless me now, my Saviour,_
        _I come to thee!_

  4 I need thee every hour;
    Teach me thy will;
  And thy rich promises
    In me fulfil.
      _I need thee, O I need thee,_
        _Every hour I need thee;_
      _O bless me now, my Saviour,_
        _I come to thee!_

  5 I need thee every hour,
    Most Holy One;
  O make me thine indeed,
    Thou blessed Son!
      _I need thee, O I need thee,_
        _Every hour I need thee;_
      _O bless me now, my Saviour,_
        _I come to thee!_    Amen.


3.    (5)

  1 Abide with me: fast falls the eventide;
  The darkness deepens; Lord, with me abide:
  When other helpers fail, and comforts flee,
  Help of the helpless, O abide with me.

  2 Swift to its close ebbs out life's little day;
  Earth's joys grow dim, its glories pass away,
  Change and decay in all around I see;
  O thou who changest not, abide with me.

  3 I need thy presence every passing hour;
  What but thy grace can foil the tempter's power?
  Who, like thyself, my guide and stay can be?
  Through cloud and sunshine, Lord, abide with me.

  4 I fear no foe, with thee at hand to bless:
  Ills have no weight, and tears no bitterness.
  Where is death's sting? where, grave, thy victory?
  I triumph still, if thou abide with me.

  5 Hold thou thy cross before my closing eyes:
  Shine through the gloom, and point me to the skies:
  Heaven's morning breaks, and earth's vain shadows flee:
  In life, in death, O Lord, abide with me.    Amen.


4.    (7)

  1 Sun of my soul, thou Saviour dear,
  It is not night if thou be near;
  O may no earth-born cloud arise
  To hide thee from thy servant's eyes.

  2 When the soft dews of kindly sleep
  My weary eyelids gently steep,
  Be my last thought, how sweet to rest
  For ever on my Saviour's breast.

  3 Abide with me from morn till eve,
  For without thee I cannot live;
  Abide with me when night is nigh,
  For without thee I dare not die.

  4 If some poor wandering child of thine
  Have spurned to-day the voice divine,
  Now, Lord, the gracious work begin;
  Let him no more lie down in sin.

  5 Watch by the sick; enrich the poor
  With blessings from thy boundless store;
  Be every mourner's sleep to-night,
  Like infant's slumbers, pure and light.

  6 Come near and bless us when we wake,
  Ere through the world our way we take,
  Till in the ocean of thy love
  We lose ourselves in heaven above.    Amen.


5.    (9)

  1 Now the day is over,
    Night is drawing nigh,
  Shadows of the evening
    Steal across the sky.

  2 Jesus, give the weary
    Calm and sweet repose;
  With thy tenderest blessing
    May our eyelids close.

  3 Grant to little children
    Visions bright of thee;
  Guard the sailors tossing
    On the deep, blue sea.

  4 Comfort every sufferer
    Watching late in pain;
  Those who plan some evil
    From their sin restrain.

  5 Through the long night watches,
    May thine angels spread
  Their white wings above me,
    Watching round my bed.

  6 When the morning wakens,
    Then may I arise
  Pure, and fresh, and sinless
    In thy holy eyes.    Amen.


6.    (11)

  1 Guide me, O thou great Jehovah,
    Pilgrim through this barren land,
  I am weak, but thou art mighty;
    Hold me with thy powerful hand.

  2 Open now the crystal fountains
    Whence the living waters flow;
  Let the fiery, cloudy pillar
    Lead me all my journey through.

  3 Feed me with the heavenly manna
    In this barren wilderness;
  Be my sword, and shield, and banner,
    Be the Lord my Righteousness.

  4 When I tread the verge of Jordan,
    Bid my anxious fears subside;
  Death of death, and hell's destruction,
    Land me safe on Canaan's side.    Amen.


7.    (16)

  1 O little town of Bethlehem,
    How still we see thee lie!
  Above thy deep and dreamless sleep
    The silent stars go by;
  Yet in thy dark streets shineth
    The everlasting Light;
  The hopes and fears of all the years
    Are met in thee to-night.

  2 For Christ is born of Mary,
    And gathered all above,
  While mortals sleep, the angels keep
    Their watch of wondering love.
  O morning stars, together
    Proclaim the holy birth!
  And praises sing to God the King,
    And peace to men on earth.

  3 How silently, how silently,
    The wondrous gift is given!
  So God imparts to human hearts
    The blessings of his heaven.
  No ear may hear his coming,
    But in this world of sin,
  Where meek souls will receive him, still
    The dear Christ enters in.

  4 O holy Child of Bethlehem!
    Descend to us, we pray;
  Cast out our sin and enter in,
    Be born in us to-day.
  We hear the Christmas angels
    The great glad tidings tell;
  O come to us, abide with us,
    Our Lord Emmanuel!    Amen.


8.    (17)

      1 O come, all ye faithful,
      Joyful and triumphant,
  O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem;
      Come and behold him
      Born the King of angels;
      O come, let us adore him,
      O come, let us adore him,
  O come, let us adore him, Christ the Lord.

      2 God of God,
      Light of Light,
  Lo! He abhors not the Virgin's womb:
      Very God,
      Begotten, not created;
      O come, let us adore him, etc.

      3 Sing, choirs of angels,
      Sing in exultation,
  Sing, all ye citizens of heaven above;
      Glory to God
      In the highest;
      O come, let us adore him, etc.

      4 Yea, Lord, we greet thee,
      Born this happy morning;
  Jesus, to thee be glory given;
      Word of the Father,
      Now in flesh appearing;
      O come, let us adore him, etc.    Amen.


9.    (19)

  1 Silent night, holy night,
  All is calm, all is bright
  Round yon virgin mother and child.
  Holy infant so tender and mild,
  Sleep in heavenly peace.

  2 Silent night, holy night,
  Shepherds quake at the sight,
  Glories stream from heaven afar,
  Heavenly hosts sing alleluia;
  Christ, the Saviour, is born!

  3 Silent night, holy night,
  Son of God, love's pure light
  Radiant beams from thy holy face,
  With the dawn of redeeming grace,
  Jesus, Lord, at thy birth.    Amen.


10.    (18)

  1 How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord,
  Is laid for your faith in his excellent word!
  What more can he say than to you he hath said,
  You who unto Jesus for refuge have fled?

  2 "Fear not, I am with thee; O be not dismayed!
  I, I am thy God, and will still give thee aid;
  I'll strengthen thee, help thee, and cause thee to stand.
  Upheld by my righteous, omnipotent hand.

  3 "When through the deep waters I call thee to go,
  The rivers of woe shall not thee overflow;
  For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless,
  And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress.

  4 "When through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie,
  My grace, all-sufficient, shall be thy supply;
  The flame shall not hurt thee; I only design
  Thy dross to consume, and thy gold to refine.

  5 "The soul that to Jesus hath fled for repose,
  I will not, I will not desert to his foes;
  That soul, though all hell shall endeavor to shake,
  I'll never, no, never, no, never forsake."    Amen.


11.    (29)

  1 In the cross of Christ I glory,
    Towering o'er the wrecks of time;
  All the light of sacred story
    Gathers round its head sublime.

  2 When the woes of life o'ertake me,
    Hopes deceive, and fears annoy,
  Never shall the cross forsake me:
    Lo! it glows with peace and joy.

  3 When the sun of bliss is beaming
    Light and love upon my way,
  From the cross the radiance streaming,
    Adds new luster to the day.

  4 Bane and blessing, pain and pleasure,
    By the cross are sanctified;
  Peace is there that knows no measure,
    Joys that through all time abide.

  5 In the cross of Christ I glory,
    Towering o'er the wrecks of time;
  All the light of sacred story
    Gathers round its head sublime.    Amen.


12.    (30)

  1 When I survey the wondrous cross
    On which the Prince of Glory died,
  My richest gain I count but loss,
    And pour contempt on all my pride.

  2 Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast,
    Save in the cross of Christ, my God:
  All the vain things that charm me most,
    I sacrifice them to his blood.

  3 See, from his head, his hands, his feet,
    Sorrow and love flow mingled down!
  Did e'er such love and sorrow meet?
    Or thorns compose so rich a crown?

  4 Were the whole realm of nature mine,
    That were a tribute far too small;
  Love so amazing, so divine,
    Demands my soul, my life, my all.    Amen.


13.    (34)

  1 The strife is o'er, the battle done,
  The victory of life is won;
  The song of triumph has begun.
                        Alleluia!

  2 The powers of death have done their worst,
  But Christ their legions hath dispersed:
  Let shout of holy joy outburst.
                        Alleluia!

  3 The three sad days are quickly sped,
  He rises glorious from the dead:
  All glory to our risen Head!
                        Alleluia!

  4 He closed the yawning gates of hell,
  The bars from heaven's high portals fell;
  Let hymns of praise his triumphs tell!
                        Alleluia!

  5 Lord! by the stripes which wounded thee,
  From death's dread sting thy servants free,
  That we may live and sing to thee.
                        Alleluia!    Amen.


14.    (36)

  1 Crown him with many crowns,
    The Lamb upon his throne;
  Hark! how the heavenly anthem drowns
    All music but its own:
  Awake, my soul, and sing
    Of him who died for thee,
  And hail him as thy matchless King
    Through all eternity.

  2 Crown him the Son of God
    Before the worlds began,
  And ye, who tread where he hath trod,
    Crown him the Son of man;
  Who every grief hath known
    That wrings the human breast,
  And takes and bears them for his own,
    That all in him may rest.

  3 Crown him the Lord of life,
    Who triumphed o'er the grave,
  And rose victorious in the strife
    For those he came to save;
  His glories now we sing
    Who died, and rose on high,
  Who died, eternal life to bring,
    And lives that death may die.

  4 Crown him of lords the Lord,
    Who over all doth reign,
  Who once on earth, the Incarnate Word,
    For ransomed sinners slain,
  Now lives in realms of light,
    Where saints with angels sing
  Their songs before him day and night,
    Their God, Redeemer, King.

  5 Crown him the Lord of heaven,
    Enthroned in worlds above;
  Crown him the King, to whom is given
    The wondrous name of Love.
  Crown him with many crowns,
    As thrones before him fall,
  Crown him, ye kings, with many crowns,
    For he is King of all.    Amen.


15.    (39)

  1 Holy, Holy, Holy! Lord God Almighty!
    Early in the morning our song shall rise to thee:
  Holy, Holy, Holy! merciful and mighty!
    God in three Persons, blessd Trinity.

  2 Holy, Holy, Holy! all the saints adore thee,
    Casting down their golden crowns around the glassy sea;
  Cherubim and seraphim falling down before thee,
    Which wert, and art, and evermore shalt be.

  3 Holy, Holy, Holy! though the darkness hide thee,
    Though the eye of sinful man thy glory may not see,
  Only thou art holy; there is none beside thee,
    Perfect in power, in love, and purity.

  4 Holy, Holy, Holy! Lord God Almighty!
    All thy works shall praise thy Name, in earth, and sky, and sea;
  Holy, Holy, Holy! merciful and mighty!
    God in three Persons, blessd Trinity.    Amen.


16.    (41)

  1 Blest be the tie that binds
    Our hearts in Jesus' love:
  The fellowship of Christian minds
    Is like to that above.

  2 Before our Father's throne
    We pour united prayers;
  Our fears, our hopes, our aims are one;
    Our comforts and our cares.

  3 We share our mutual woes,
    Our mutual burdens bear;
  And often for each other flows
    The sympathizing tear.

  4 When we at death must part.
    Not like the world's, our pain;
  But one in Christ, and one in heart,
    We part to meet again.

  5 From sorrow, toil, and pain,
    And sin, we shall be free;
  And perfect love and friendship reign
    Throughout eternity.    Amen.


17.    (42)

  1 My faith looks up to thee,
  Thou Lamb of Calvary,
    Saviour divine!
  Now hear me while I pray;
  Take all my guilt away;
  O let me from this day
    Be wholly thine.

  2 May thy rich grace impart
  Strength to my fainting heart.
    My zeal inspire;
  As thou hast died for me,
  O may my love to thee
  Pure, warm, and changeless be,
    A living fire.

  3 While life's dark maze I tread,
  And griefs around me spread,
    Be thou my guide;
  Bid darkness turn to day;
  Wipe sorrow's tears away;
  Nor let me ever stray
    From thee aside!

  4 When ends life's transient dream,
  When death's cold, sullen stream
    Shall o'er me roll;
  Blest Saviour, then in love,
  Fear and distrust remove;
  O bear me safe above,
    A ransomed soul!    Amen.


18.    (43)

  1 All hail the power of Jesus' Name!
    Let angels prostrate fall;
  Bring forth the royal diadem,
    And crown him Lord of all!

  2 Crown him, ye martyrs of our God,
    Who from his altar call:
  Extol the Stem-of-Jesse's rod,
    And crown him Lord of all!

  3 Hail him, the Heir of David's line,
    Whom David, Lord did call;
  The God incarnate! Man divine!
    And crown him Lord of all!

  4 Ye seed of Israel's chosen race,
    Ye ransomed of the fall,
  Hail him who saves you by his grace,
    And crown him Lord of all!

  5 Sinners, whose love can ne'er forget
    The wormwood and the gall,
  Go, spread your trophies at his feet,
    And crown him Lord of all!

  6 Let every kindred, every tribe,
    Before him prostrate fall!
  To him all majesty ascribe,
    And crown him Lord of all!    Amen.


19.    (45)

  1 Rock of ages, cleft for me,
  Let me hide myself in thee;
  Let the water and the blood
  From thy side, a healing flood,
  Be of sin the double cure,
  Save from wrath, and make me pure.

  2 Should my tears for ever flow,
  Should my zeal no languor know,
  All for sin could not atone,
  Thou must save, and thou alone;
  In my hand no price I bring,
  Simply to thy cross I cling.

  3 While I draw this fleeting breath,
  When mine eyelids close in death,
  When I rise to worlds unknown,
  And behold thee on thy throne,
  Rock of ages, cleft for me,
  Let me hide myself in thee.    Amen.


20.    (47)

  1 Jesus, Lover of my soul,
    Let me to thy bosom fly,
  While the nearer waters roll,
    While the tempest still is high:
  Hide me, O my Saviour, hide,
    Till the storm of life be past;
  Safe into the haven guide,
    O receive my soul at last!

  2 Other refuge have I none,
    Hangs my helpless soul on thee;
  Leave, ah! leave me not alone,
    Still support and comfort me!
  All my trust on thee is stayed;
    All my help from thee I bring;
  Cover my defenceless head
    With the shadow of thy wing.

  3 Plenteous grace with thee is found,
    Grace to cleanse from every sin;
  Let the healing streams abound,
    Make and keep me pure within.
  Thou of life the fountain art,
    Freely let me take of thee;
  Spring thou up within my heart,
    Rise to all eternity.    Amen.


21.    (48)

  1 O Love that wilt not let me go,
    I rest my weary soul in thee;
  I give thee back the life I owe,
  That in thine ocean depths its flow
    May richer, fuller be.

  2 O Light that followest all my way,
    I yield my flickering torch to thee;
  My heart restores its borrowed ray,
  That in thy sunshine's blaze its day
    May brighter, fairer be.

  3 O Joy that seekest me through pain,
    I cannot close my heart to thee;
  I trace the rainbow through the rain,
  And feel the promise is not vain
    That morn shall tearless be.

  4 O Cross that liftest up my head,
    I dare not ask to fly from thee;
  I lay in dust life's glory dead,
  And from the ground there blossoms red
    Life that shall endless be.    Amen.


22.    (51)

  1 There's a wideness in God's mercy
    Like the wideness of the sea;
  There's a kindness in his justice,
    Which is more than liberty.
  There is welcome for the sinner,
    And more graces for the good;
  There is mercy with the Saviour;
    There is healing in his blood.

  2 There is no place where earth's sorrows
    Are more felt than up in heaven;
  There is no place where earth's failings
    Have such kindly judgment given.
  There is plentiful redemption
    In the blood that has been shed;
  There is joy for all the members
    In the sorrows of the Head.

  3 For the love of God is broader
    Than the measure of man's mind;
  And the heart of the Eternal
    Is most infinitely kind.
  If our love were but more simple,
    We should take him at his word;
  And our lives would be all sunshine
    In the sweetness of the Lord.


23.    (55)

  1 I love thy kingdom, Lord,
    The house of thine abode,
  The Church our blest Redeemer saved
    With his own precious blood.

  2 For her my tears shall fall;
    For her my prayers ascend;
  To her my toils and cares be given,
    Till toils and cares shall end.

  3 Beyond my highest joy
    I prize her heavenly ways,
  Her sweet communion, solemn vows,
    Her hymns of love and praise.

  4 Jesus, thou friend divine,
    Our Saviour and our King,
  Thy hand from every snare and foe
    Shall great deliverance bring.

  5 Sure as thy truth shall last,
    To Sion shall be given
  The brightest glories earth can yield,
    And brighter bliss of heaven.    Amen.


24.    (62)

  1 Eternal Father! strong to save,
  Whose arm hath bound the restless wave,
  Who bidd'st the mighty ocean deep
  Its own appointed limits keep;
      O hear us when we cry to thee
      For those in peril on the sea!

  2 O Christ! whose voice the waters heard
  And hushed their raging at thy word,
  Who walkedst on the foaming deep,
  And calm amidst its rage didst sleep;
      O hear us when we cry to thee
      For those in peril on the sea!

  3 Most Holy Spirit! who didst brood
  Upon the chaos dark and rude,
  And bid its angry tumult cease,
  And give, for wild confusion, peace;
      O hear us when we cry to thee
      For those in peril on the sea!

  4 O Trinity of love and power!
  Our brethren shield in danger's hour;
  From rock and tempest, fire and foe,
  Protect them wheresoe'er they go;
      Thus evermore shall rise to thee
      Glad hymns of praise from land and sea.    Amen.


25.    (63)

  1 Now thank we all our God,
    With heart, and hands, and voices,
  Who wondrous things hath done,
    In whom his world rejoices;
  Who from our mother's arms
    Hath blessed us on our way
  With countless gifts of love,
    And still is ours to-day.

  2 O may this bounteous God
    Through all our life be near us!
  With ever-joyful hearts
    And blessed peace to cheer us;
  And keep us in his grace,
    And guide us when perplext,
  And free us from all ills
    In this world and the next.    Amen.


26.    (65)

  1 O beautiful for spacious skies,
    For amber waves of grain.
  For purple mountain majesties
    Above the fruited plain!

  America! America!
    God shed his grace on thee,
  And crown thy good with brotherhood
    From sea to shining sea.

  2 O beautiful for pilgrim feet,
    Whose stern, impassioned stress
  A thoroughfare for freedom beat
    Across the wilderness!

  America! America!
    God mend thine every flaw,
  Confirm thy soul in self control,
    Thy liberty in law.

  3 O beautiful for heroes proved
    In liberating strife,
  Who more than self their country loved,
    And mercy more than life!

  America! America!
    May God thy gold refine,
  Till all success be nobleness,
    And every gain divine.

  4 O beautiful for patriot dream
    That sees, beyond the years,
  Thine alabaster cities gleam,
    Undimmed by human tears!

  America! America!
    God shed his grace on thee,
  And crown thy good with brotherhood
    From sea to shining sea.    Amen.


27.    (71)

  1 Once to every man and nation
    Comes the moment to decide,
  In the strife of truth with falsehood,
    For the good or evil side;
  Some great cause, God's new Messiah,
    Offering each the bloom or blight,
  And the choice goes by for ever
    'Twixt that darkness and that light.

  2 Then to side with truth is noble,
    When we share her wretched crust,
  Ere her cause bring fame and profit,
    And 'tis prosperous to be just;
  Then it is the brave man chooses,
    While the coward stands aside
  Till the multitude make virtue
    Of the faith they had denied.

  3 By the light of burning martyrs
    Jesus' bleeding feet I track,
  Toiling up new Calvaries ever
    With the cross that turns not back;
  New occasions teach new duties,
    Time makes ancient good uncouth;
  They must upward still and onward,
    Who would keep abreast of truth.

  4 Though the cause of evil prosper,
    Yet 'tis truth alone is strong;
  Though her portion be the scaffold,
    And upon the throne be wrong,
  Yet that scaffold sways the future,
    And, behind the dim unknown,
  Standeth God within the shadow
    Keeping watch above his own.    Amen.


28.    (74)

  1 The Church's one foundation
    Is Jesus Christ her Lord;
  She is his new creation
    By water and the word:
  From heaven he came and sought her
    To be his holy bride;
  With his own blood he bought her,
    And for her life he died.

  2 Elect from every nation,
    Yet one o'er all the earth,
  Her charter of salvation,
    One Lord, one faith, one birth;
  One holy Name she blesses,
    Partakes one holy food,
  And to one hope she presses,
    With every grace endued.

  3 Though with a scornful wonder
    Men see her sore opprest,
  By schisms rent asunder,
    By heresies distrest;
  Yet saints their watch are keeping,
    Their cry goes up, "How long?"
  And soon the night of weeping
    Shall be the morn of song.

  4 'Mid toil and tribulation,
    And tumult of her war,
  She waits the consummation
    Of peace for evermore;
  Till with the vision glorious
    Her longing eyes are blest,
  And the great Church victorious
    Shall be the Church at rest.

  5 Yet she on earth hath union
    With God the Three in One,
  And mystic sweet communion
    With those whose rest is won.
  O happy ones and holy!
    Lord, give us grace that we
  Like them, the meek and lowly,
    On high may dwell with thee.    Amen.


29.    (75)

  1 Glorious things of thee are spoken,
    Sion, city of our God;
  He whose word cannot be broken,
    Formed thee for his own abode;
  On the Rock of Ages founded,
    What can shake thy sure repose?
  With salvation's walls surrounded,
    Thou may'st smile at all thy foes.

  2 See, the streams of living waters
    Springing from eternal love,
  Well supply thy sons and daughters,
    And all fear of want remove.
  Who can faint, when such a river
    Ever will their thirst assuage?
  Grace which, like the Lord, the giver,
    Never fails from age to age.

  3 Round each habitation hovering,
    See the cloud and fire appear
  For a glory and a covering,
    Showing that the Lord is near.
  Thus deriving from their banner,
    Light by night, and shade by day,
  Safe they feed upon the manna,
    Which he gives them when they pray.

  4 Blest inhabitants of Sion,
    Washed in the Redeemer's blood!
  Jesus, whom their souls rely on,
    Makes them kings and priests to God.
  'Tis his love his people raises
    Over self to reign as kings:
  And as priests, his solemn praises
    Each for a thank-offering brings.    Amen.


30.    (76)

  1 Jesus shall reign where'er the sun
  Doth his successive journeys run;
  His kingdom stretch from shore to shore,
  Till moons shall wax and wane no more.

  2 To him shall endless prayer be made,
  And praises throng to crown his head;
  His Name like sweet perfume shall rise
  With every morning sacrifice.

  3 People and realms of every tongue
  Dwell on his love with sweetest song;
  And infant voices shall proclaim
  Their early blessings on his Name.

  4 Blessings abound where'er he reigns;
  The prisoner leaps to lose his chains,
  The weary find eternal rest,
  And all the sons of want are blest.

  5 Let every creature rise and bring
  Peculiar honors to our King;
  Angels descend with songs again,
  And earth repeat the loud Amen.


31.    (77)

  1 Our Lord is risen from the dead;
    Our Jesus is gone up on high;
  The powers of hell are captive led,
    Dragged to the portals of the sky.

  2 There his triumphal chariot waits,
    And angels chant the solemn lay:
  Lift up your heads, ye heavenly gates,
    Ye everlasting doors, give way.

  3 Loose all your bars of massy light,
    And wide unfold the radiant scene;
  He claims those mansions as his right;
    Receive the King of glory in.

  4 Who is the King of glory, who?
    The Lord that all his foes o'ercame,
  The world, sin, death, and hell o'erthrew;
    And Jesus is the Conqueror's name.

  5 Lo! His triumphal chariot waits,
    And angels chant the solemn lay:
  Lift up your heads, ye heavenly gates,
    Ye everlasting doors, give way.    Amen.


32.    (80)

  1 O Master, let me walk with thee
  In lowly paths of service free;
  Tell me thy secret; help me bear
  The strain of toil, the fret of care.

  2 Help me the slow of heart to move
  By some clear, winning word of love;
  Teach me the wayward feet to stay,
  And guide them in the homeward way.

  3 Teach me thy patience; still with thee
  In closer, dearer company,
  In work that keeps faith sweet and strong,
  In trust that triumphs over wrong,

  4 In hope that sends a shining ray
  Far down the future's broadening way,
  In peace that only thou canst give,
  With thee, O Master, let me live.    Amen.


33.    (82)

  1 Onward, Christian soldiers,
    Marching as to war,
  With the cross of Jesus
    Going on before!
  Christ, the royal Master,
    Leads against the foe;
  Forward into battle,
    See, his banners go.
      Onward, Christian soldiers,
        Marching as to war,
      With the cross of Jesus
        Going on before!

  2 At the sign of triumph
    Satan's host doth flee;
  On, then, Christian soldiers,
    On to victory!
  Hell's foundations quiver
    At the shout of praise;
  Brothers, lift your voices,
    Loud your anthems raise!
      Onward, etc.

  3 Like a mighty army
    Moves the Church of God;
  Brothers, we are treading
    Where the saints have trod;
  We are not divided,
    All one body we,
  One in hope and doctrine,
    One in charity.
      Onward, etc.

  4 Crowns and thrones may perish,
    Kingdoms rise and wane,
  But the Church of Jesus
    Constant will remain;
  Gates of hell can never
    'Gainst that Church prevail;
  We have Christ's own promise,
    And that cannot fail.
      Onward, etc.

  5 Onward, then, ye people!
    Join our happy throng!
  Blend with ours your voices
    In the triumph song!
  Glory, laud, and honor,
    Unto Christ the King;
  This through countless ages
    Men and angels sing.
      Onward, etc.    Amen.


34.    (83)

  1 Stand up, stand up, for Jesus,
    Ye soldiers of the cross!
  Lift high his royal banner!
    It must not suffer loss:
  From victory unto victory
    His army shall he lead;
  Till every foe is vanquished,
    And Christ is Lord indeed.

  2 Stand up, stand up, for Jesus!
    The trumpet call obey!
  Forth to the mighty conflict
    In this his glorious day!
  Ye that are men now serve him
    Against unnumbered foes!
  Let courage rise with danger,
    And strength to strength oppose.

  3 Stand up, stand up, for Jesus!
    Stand in his strength alone!
  The arm of flesh will fail you,
    Ye dare not trust your own:
  Put on the Gospel armor,
    And watching unto prayer,
  When duty calls, or danger,
    Be never wanting there!

  4 Stand up, stand up, for Jesus!
    The strife will not be long:
  This day, the noise of battle;
    The next, the victor's song.
  To him that overcometh,
    A crown of life shall be;
  He with the King of glory
    Shall reign eternally.    Amen.


35.    (85)

  1 Be still, my soul: the Lord is on thy side;
    Bear patiently the cross of grief or pain;
  Leave to thy God to order and provide;
    In every change he faithful will remain.
  Be still, my soul: thy best, thy heavenly Friend
    Thro' thorny ways leads to a joyful end.

  2 Be still, my soul: thy God doth undertake
    To guide the future as he has the past.
  Thy hope, thy confidence let nothing shake;
    All now mysterious shall be bright at last.
  Be still, my soul: the waves and winds still know
    His voice who ruled them while he dwelt below.

  3 Be still, my soul: the hour is hastening on
    When we shall be forever with the Lord,
  When disappointment, grief, and fear are gone,
    Sorrow forgot, love's purest joys restored.
  Be still, my soul: when change and tears are past,
    All safe and blessed we shall meet at last.    Amen.


36.    (89)

  1 We gather together to ask the Lord's blessing;
    He chastens and hastens his will to make known;
  The wicked oppressing now cease from distressing,
    Sing praises to his Name; he forgets not his own.

  2 Beside us to guide us, our God with us joining,
    Ordaining, maintaining his kingdom divine;
  So from the beginning the fight we were winning:
    Thou, Lord, wast at our side, all glory be thine!

  3 We all do extol thee, thou leader triumphant,
    And pray that thou still our defender wilt be.
  Let thy congregation escape tribulation:
    Thy Name be ever praised! O Lord, make us free!    Amen.


37.    (91)

  1 O God, our help in ages past,
    Our hope for years to come,
  Our shelter from the stormy blast
    And our eternal home:

  2 Under the shadow of thy throne
    Thy saints have dwelt secure;
  Sufficient is thine arm alone,
    And our defence is sure.

  3 Before the hills in order stood,
    Or earth received her frame.
  From everlasting thou art God,
    To endless years the same.

  4 A thousand ages in thy sight
    Are like an evening gone;
  Short as the watch that ends the night
    Before the rising sun.

  5 Time, like an ever-rolling stream,
    Bears all its sons away;
  They fly, forgotten, as a dream
    Dies at the opening day.

  6 O God, our help in ages past,
    Our hope for years to come,
  Be thou our guide while life shall last,
    And our eternal home.    Amen.


38.    (68)

  1 My country, 'tis of thee,
  Sweet land of liberty,
    Of thee I sing;
  Land where my fathers died,
  Land of the pilgrims' pride,
  From every mountain-side
    Let freedom ring.

  2 My native country, thee,
  Land of the noble free.
    Thy name I love;
  I love thy rocks and rills.
  Thy woods and templed hills;
  My heart with rapture thrills
    Like that above.

  3 Let music swell the breeze,
  And ring from all the trees
    Sweet freedom's song;
  Let mortal tongues awake,
  Let all that breathe partake,
  Let rocks their silence break,
    The sound prolong.

  4 Our fathers' God, to thee,
  Author of liberty,
    To thee we sing;
  Long may our land be bright
  With freedom's holy light;
  Protect us by thy might,
    Great God, our King.    Amen.




                        Transcriber's Notes


--Silently corrected a few typos.

--Treated sidenotes like other rubrics.







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Prayer Book for Soldiers and Sailors, by 
Anonymous

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRAYER BOOK--SOLDIERS, SAILORS ***

***** This file should be named 50469-8.txt or 50469-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/0/4/6/50469/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Dave Morgan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

